Hello, and welcome back
to the computer
forensics bootcamp.
In this module, we are
going to talk about what
computer forensics is in
the role of the computer
forensic examiner.
The National Institute of
Standards and Technology,
NIST, defines digital forensics
as a forensic science field.
It is considered a
forensic science.
We're going to be
mainly concentrating
on the retrieval, storing,
and analyzing electronic data,
and we're going to use this
data in investigations,
whether they're criminal,
civil, or internal
investigations.
One thing we need
to be aware of is
a multitude of items can
contain digital evidence.
We always think of
computers and cell
phones, mobile devices.
But now we have to be aware of
motor vehicle entertainment
centers, aerial drones,
and a variety of Cloud
storage options,
as well as watches, Alexas,
refrigerators, TV's.
There's all kinds of
devices out there
that contain digital evidence.
Another challenge we face as
forensic examiners is the sizes,
the amount of data
that we're looking at.
We have vast sums of data,
and we are looking for
that small piece of
data that is relevant to our
particular investigation.
We also need to be concerned
about preserving the evidence,
meaning that when we
collect this evidence,
we've got to do it in a way
that is reliable and proven,
and we have to do it
without altering the
evidence in any way.
We want to make every effort
not to alter the evidence.
Here is a layout talking
about the process of
computer forensics.
Again, it is the
collection, storage,
preservation,
analysis, and presentation
of electronic evidence.
Remember, this process
must be repeatable.
In other words, you must be
able to do it more than once.
It must be repeatable.
It must be reproducible,
meaning that you could
give that evidence to
another examiner and they
could come up with the
same results you did,
the same findings, and
it must be verifiable.
We must be able to verify what
our tools or our forensic
software is telling us.
How do we achieve this?
We achieve this through
what they call approved
methodologies.
In other words, methods that
have been scientifically tested.
We're going to use tools
that have been validated.
We're going to
validate our tools,
and we're going to
talk a lot more about
that in upcoming modules.
We're going to follow
these procedures
every time, all the time.
That way, when you're
called into court or you're
testifying before your
boss or in a civil case,
you can say with
the utmost certainty
that this is how you
performed this
particular examination
because you always
do it that way.
You want to get into good habits
so you do not skip
or miss any steps.
The role of the examiner,
what is the job of the examiner?
Well, we have some
major responsibilities,
and they're going to include
the collecting of the
digital evidence.
We're going to have to examine
and preserve this evidence,
we are going to do reporting.
Reporting will usually
be in a written form,
but you can have some form
of verbal reporting also.
You're going to want
to include some type
of peer review and
quality assurance.
Peer review is when
a colleague looks
over your work and checks it.
Quality assurance is pretty
much the same thing.
Court presentations
are another thing
we're going to be
responsible for,
and we're going to
have to present
this evidence in court,
whether that's criminal or civil
or some type of internal hearing.
We also find ourselves
responsible with anything
associated with computers
or investigations.
Another thing that
computer forensic examiner
has to be aware of is they
probably have more than one
boss or reporting chain.
This could be because
of the function of
the legal system or the
function of your employer.
I know when I worked
in the public sector,
I reported to my
direct supervisor,
but I also had a sergeant who was
in charge of the
forensic laboratory,
and then I also had to talk
to the state's attorney.
There were multiple bosses
that I was reporting to.
Some agencies or companies
have a division of labor.
A lot of times the
evidence will be collected
by the first responders
or the investigators,
and then they're going to
deliver that evidence to
a laboratory for examination
by a forensic examiner.
So we have the first responders
and the investigators
working in the field and the
examiner working in the lab.
In some cases, you will be
responsible for both those jobs.
But if you're not, if you're
the forensic examiner
working in the lab,
you want to make sure
you are talking to
the first responders and
the investigators
working in the field.
If you're somebody that
works in the field,
you want to make
sure you understand
the proper way to collect
digital evidence,
and you and the examiner are
talking to each other
and on the same page.
In our next module,
we're going to talk about
some forensic methodologies
and investigative processes.